>> Brian Holt: All right.
So let's go ahead and
implement this together.
I'm gonna use the structure
that I've provided here.
>> Brian Holt: Going
down here to createTrie.
It's gonna have a root node.
And then for each one of these,
I'm just gonna go through and
add them to this data structure.
So I'm gonna call words.forEach
>> Brian Holt: And
then I'm gonna add the word to
root.add(word.toLowerCase),
cuz in this particular case you
don't wanna worry about uppercase.
So everything's gonna be auto
completed in the lowercase.
You can probably capital case
this after you get it back,
but whatever everything's gonna be
lowercase for the sake of the exercise.
And then we're gonna go
back up to this node.
And we're just gonna add
a bunch of properties on this
particular node, so
children is gonna be an array, okay?
Value of the current item is going to be
an empty string, which we'll set later.
I guess I probably have to put semi
colons on this or it's gonna be upset.
Nope, whatever.
>> Brian Holt: Terminus.
This is just to say, if I finished
right here, is this a word, right?
Usually the answer to that is no,
but sometimes it's gonna be true.
And then we're gonna have a constructor.
A constructor is a special function
that's get run every single
time this particular class
is gonna get constructed.
I think it follows.
It's gonna take in a string.
And what it's going to do is,
it's going to say,
first of all, this .value is going to be
equal to zero or empty string, either/or.
Then you're gonna say,
if string.length is greater than 1,
then this.children.push(new Node),
and then you're gonna say string.substring
From one to the end, right?
So what you're doing here is if this is
not the end of the word, then I'm gonna
have to continue breaking it down into
further and further nodes, right?
That's what this does, and
then I'm going to construct a new node
with everything not included
in the first letter, right?
I don't want to include that anymore.
And then you just have to know that, that
means this constructors gonna be called on
the smaller node in front of it, so it
will continue breaking things down, right?
So that's why you passed
everything from one to the end,
cuz it's going to keep breaking down into
smaller and smaller pieces of the tree,
in both sense of the word, okay.
Else, if it's done,
then you just say this.terminus = true
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then I'm gonna write an add function here.
>> Brian Holt: That's
going to take in a string.
And const value = string[0].
const next = string.substring(1).
And then, here I'm gonna say,
if child.value triple equals value.
>> Brian Holt: There, I gotta
remember exactly what this is doing.
[COUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Right,
so this is basically checking to see if,
have I finished the string, right?
Even if it still has children,
have I finished the string?
And if that's the case, then you need
to mark the term and this is true.
So in that same example,
the Selena, I have to mark this as true
even though that has still children to go.
So if (next),
>> Brian Holt: Then child.add(next).
>> Brian Holt: Else
child.terminus = true and
then return at the end of all of these.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
then down here at the bottom you just say
this.children.push(new Node (string)).
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
So that's the add function of how you
add something new to a tree, right?
You're basically breaking it down,
piece by piece, and
then creating new Nodes as you go down.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, which is fine, cool.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
>> Brian Holt: What I'm gonna do here with
this complete thing is I'm going to return
this.children
>> Brian Holt: .map
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna say child, and
then I'm gonna write an internal
function called child._complete.
This is my internal recursive method
that I'm gonna keep calling over and
over again here, child._complete(string.
I'm gonna start with empty string,
and an empty array.
So the empty string is the string
I'm gonna start with, right?
And then the array is of
items that I'm going to
return to the user as auto
complete suggestions.
And then here,
>> Brian Holt: I'm going to reduce them.
I'm gonna flatten them, right?
We saw this before because they're
gonna come back as arrays.
>> Brian Holt: Acc.concat(item), okay?
So this is the flat line or smush.
>> Brian Holt: It comes up again, right?
Not gonna say anything.
I already did.
It's fine.
Okay, so
now let's write the _completefunction.
This takes in the search string
that we're still searching for,
what's already been built, and these
suggestions that I already have, okay?
So in this particular case, I'm asking
you for up to three suggestions.
So if suggestions.length
is greater than or
equal to 3, then stop,
or search && search[0]
&& =/= this.value.
>> Brian Holt: So, search string and
search[0] is not equal to this.value.
>> Brian Holt: Right, and at that point,
then you're going to
return the suggestions,
because at that point,
>> Brian Holt: Return suggestions.
At that point, that's the base case.
You're gonna say if (this.terminus).
So if I've reached a terminus in here,
then I'm going to suggestions.push.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna use
a template string, right,
because you have to put
together the current value.
And the constructed string, so
the built string comes first.
So built, and
then if I reach a terminus, right,
then I'll have a built part of the string,
and
then I just need to concatenate
this .value to it, okay?
>> Brian Holt: And right, so
now I have a complete word that
gets added to suggestions.
And then after that,
we're gonna say this .children.forEach.
We're gonna go through
each one of the children.
So child,
>> Brian Holt: And we're just
going to return child._complete.
We're gonna start with
search.substring(1), right?
Cuz you're gonna loft that piece off.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then here you're gonna say that
same string that we had up here.
You can just even copy and
paste if you want to.
>> Brian Holt: Because that's like the new
build string that you're gonna keep adding
one at a time, and then just put
the same suggestions in there.
And eventually you're gonna
reach three strings or
you're gonna finish the entire tree,
and then you've completed.
And at that point you
just return suggestions.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
I think that is everything.
Let me give that a shot and
see if it runs.
>> Brian Holt: Nothing works.
Child is not defined.
At no.add.
>> Brian Holt: Did I just not pull out
child, is that what I was meant to do?
Yeah, that's what, sorry.
Up here you say const child
= this.childreni[i]
>> Brian Holt: Supposed
to do up even one more.
Now we try it.
>> Brian Holt: i is not defined.
I was suppose to do this in a for loop.
Okay, sorry, for
let i = 0; i < children.length.
>> Brian Holt: this.children.length,
rather,
i++,
>> Brian Holt: Indent
that a little bit more, okay.
All right, so
value string constant.substring(1) and
that equals children plus plus,
children i.
>> Brian Holt: If next,
trial that next, [INAUDIBLE] return.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz these are all coming
back to be zero which means that
something's not getting added correctly.
Then here in _complete,
>> Brian Holt: When I
call this .children.forEach(child,
child._complete substring is built and
this .value.
God damn it.
That,
>> Brian Holt: Because it's never building
anything, right?
So it's just gonna blink.
>> Brian Holt: I blame all of you.
I feel like you all
should have caught this.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: What do I pay you for?
[LAUGH] All right, so now hopefully,
>> Brian Holt: Is it as well?
That's actually probably
where the real problem is.
>> Brian Holt: Well,
this is hopefully at least progress.
>> Brian Holt: Now it just as built a lot.
That's nice.
>> Brian Holt: All right.
>> Brian Holt: Build starts
with an empty string.
>> Brian Holt: Suggestions
this.terminus built this .value,
which means that these probably aren't
getting values where they should be.
So string,
>> Brian Holt: As zero.
Zero is nothing, that doesn't help.
So it's string.
There was multiple problems here.
>> Speaker 2: I was actually
gonna ask about that, and
then I didn't say anything.
>> Brian Holt: So what you're
saying is that, this is your fault?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: That's what I hear.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I was like why's
he putting a 0 in an array and
setting it to the value?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
So there we found it.
>> Brian Holt: Were we
rolling the whole time?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
So, we did it.
>> Brian Holt: Team effort.
We got it.
So, the problem was here.
We weren't adding the string
zero to be the value.
So, there you go, now we're seeing
the entire data set being added.
It should handle the edge cases as well.
>> Brian Holt: See what happens.
Yep, handle no match, handle Seattle,
handle words that are a subset of another,
like Selena's.
So, cool, any questions?
Before we move on.
>> Brian Holt: Awesome.